README.md, before:

# RC2040
Z80 emulation of RC2014 using the RP2040 processor 

Initial aim was to get the EtchedPixels (https://github.com/EtchedPixels) linux based z80 emulation including an SD Card based IDE running on a Pi Pico as a standalone.
I have ripped out much of EtchedPixels's great work, to which I'm truely sorry, but I was only interested in the Z80 emulation, and I needed to get it to fit in an RP2040

# Compiling
I use a RPI so...
Install Raspberrypi SDK 
cloned this RC2040 git into a subdirectory under the pico one then,

  cd pico/RC2040
  cp ../pico-sdk/external/pico_sdk_import.cmake .
  mkdir build
  cd build
  cmake ..
  make

# Serial connection details 

UART 115200 N81 3ms/char delay - 3ms/line delay (1ms /3ms if overclocked at 250000)

USB  115200 N81 3ms/char delay - 3ms/line delay (1ms /3ms if overclocked at 250000)

# Progress

Now looking at documenting it and adding "usefull" stuff to the build

Huge thanks goes to EtchedPixels, Grant Searle , Mitch Lalovic and Spencer Owen(Rc2014) for collating, modifying and allowing us to play with their software. 

SD card images (a get you started , is available in the SD Card Contents sub folder) other rom images can be found :- 


### ROM images:
- Z80 Base ROM images - https://github.com/RC2014Z80/RC2014/tree/master/ROMs/Factory
- Z80/180 Small Computer Monitor - https://smallcomputercentral.wordpress.com/small-computer-monitor/
- Z80/180 ROMWBW - https://github.com/wwarthen/RomWBW/releases
- Etched Pixels non Z80/180 cards - https://github.com/EtchedPixels/RC2014-ROM

### CP/M Disk Images (for non ROMWBW systems)

https://github.com/RC2014Z80/RC2014/tree/master/CPM

### CPM manual
http://www.cpm.z80.de/manuals/archive/cpm22htm/index.htm

### Real hardware Boards 

- RC2014 - RFC2795 Ltd: https://z80kits.com
- Small Computer Central: https://www.tindie.com/stores/tindiescx/
- Etched Pixels: https://hackaday.io/projects/hacker/425483
- TMS9918A card: https://www.tindie.com/stores/mfkamprath/

### 8 Bit output 
- port 0 mapped to 8 GPIO pins see circuit diagram
- out(0,val) will make them outputs outputing val
- in(0) will make them inputs (with pullups) returning the port state value
-

Commit message:

SD card connection detail added

README.md, after:

# RC2040
Z80 emulation of RC2014 using the RP2040 processor 

Initial aim was to get the EtchedPixels (https://github.com/EtchedPixels) linux based z80 emulation including an SD Card based IDE running on a Pi Pico as a standalone.
I have ripped out much of EtchedPixels's great work, to which I'm truely sorry, but I was only interested in the Z80 emulation, and I needed to get it to fit in an RP2040

# Compiling
I use a RPI so...
Install Raspberrypi SDK 
cloned this RC2040 git into a subdirectory under the pico one then,

  cd pico/RC2040
  cp ../pico-sdk/external/pico_sdk_import.cmake .
  mkdir build
  cd build
  cmake ..
  make
  
# SD card connection to the Pico
Details are in the Circuit diagram folder. Switches and buttons are not required. just an SD card that can be easily attached using an old SD adapter. 

# Serial connection details 

UART 115200 N81 3ms/char delay - 3ms/line delay (1ms /3ms if overclocked at 250000)

USB  115200 N81 3ms/char delay - 3ms/line delay (1ms /3ms if overclocked at 250000)

# Progress

Now looking at documenting it and adding "usefull" stuff to the build

Huge thanks goes to EtchedPixels, Grant Searle , Mitch Lalovic and Spencer Owen(Rc2014) for collating, modifying and allowing us to play with their software. 

SD card images (a get you started , is available in the SD Card Contents sub folder) other rom images can be found :- 


### ROM images:
- Z80 Base ROM images - https://github.com/RC2014Z80/RC2014/tree/master/ROMs/Factory
- Z80/180 Small Computer Monitor - https://smallcomputercentral.wordpress.com/small-computer-monitor/
- Z80/180 ROMWBW - https://github.com/wwarthen/RomWBW/releases
- Etched Pixels non Z80/180 cards - https://github.com/EtchedPixels/RC2014-ROM

### CP/M Disk Images (for non ROMWBW systems)

https://github.com/RC2014Z80/RC2014/tree/master/CPM

### CPM manual
http://www.cpm.z80.de/manuals/archive/cpm22htm/index.htm

### Real hardware Boards 

- RC2014 - RFC2795 Ltd: https://z80kits.com
- Small Computer Central: https://www.tindie.com/stores/tindiescx/
- Etched Pixels: https://hackaday.io/projects/hacker/425483
- TMS9918A card: https://www.tindie.com/stores/mfkamprath/

### 8 Bit output 
- port 0 mapped to 8 GPIO pins see circuit diagram
- out(0,val) will make them outputs outputing val
- in(0) will make them inputs (with pullups) returning the port state value
-
